

TRANSITION instead of PATCH / UPDATE
	Transition StoredState from Existing to Modified

Create
GetById
List
Transition


Always Id
Always Log for Create & Modify to the database
Log needs Id +Message + Datetime?

Enums should be text not Id
	To avoid communication errors when frontenders write code to the backend its too easy to get 1 digit wrong and makes it difficult for them to debug network message.
	They could send it in compiled binary but it would be to time-inefficient for frontenders.

Pagination - Number
Skip number of items skipped
Take number of items to take per page and return in this request
Hits number of items matching the search query
Data the items

Pagination - Token
SkipToken next skip id
Take number of items to take
Hits number of items matching the search query
Data the items

The response should contain pagination data.
Returning the data in headers is quite common as long as it is not related to the data but is bad practise since it typcially has no type-safety.


Left-side. Api should always return Ids
Right-Side. Api should always return Entitys

The left-side forces the consumer to create many requests to the api something that scales horribly with a growing number users.

The right-side causes to the api to deliver too much data in every request more than it needs to and this wastes time and memory resources causing slow requests.

The correct solution is that the consumer should be able to ask for ids or entitys for exactly the things that it needs.

The consumer has a in memory cache of the entitys and needs them to stay upto date with each request.


Only the consumer of the api knows exactly what it needs
The producer has no idea what the consumer needs.
So in Rest the producer divides the complete service into several subsets of service-endpoints
In graphql the consumer can specifiy exactly what it wants in the request. It is upto the producer to fulfill the request.
There for the producer can be exteremly efficient and the consumers doesnt need get a bunch of useless data in the response and it doesnt have to wait until the service-subset finishes building which often is rather time consuming.
